== Userstamp


== Fork Details

This is a fork of the grosser fork [https://github.com/grosser/userstamp] of the original userstamp plugin created by delynn [https://github.com/delynn/userstamp]. 

This fork has been created to combine the grosser changes that enable use of the plugin within applications that perform soft deletes but are not using the acts_as_paranoid plugin/gem (for example this fork can now be used in conjunction with the rails3_acts_as_paranoid plugin/gem [https://github.com/goncalossilva/rails3_acts_as_paranoid]).

This fork also includes changes to perform the model stamping before validation is performed so that the model can enforce the presence of stamp attribute values eg.

  validates :created_by, :presence => true
  validates :updated_by, :presence => true
	
	
== Using the Fork

To use this fork add the following to your application gemfile:

  gem 'userstamp', :git => "git://github.com/insphire/userstamp.git"
	

== Overview

Userstamp extends ActiveRecord::Base[http://api.rubyonrails.com/classes/ActiveRecord/Base.html] to add automatic updating of 'creator',
'updater', and 'deleter' attributes. It is based loosely on the ActiveRecord::Timestamp[http://api.rubyonrails.com/classes/ActiveRecord/Timestamp.html] module.

Two class methods (<tt>model_stamper</tt> and <tt>stampable</tt>) are implemented in this plugin.
The <tt>model_stamper</tt> method is used in models that are responsible for creating, updating, or
deleting other objects. The <tt>stampable</tt> method is used in models that are subject to being
created, updated, or deleted by 'stampers'.


== Usage
The assumption is that you have two different
categories of objects; those that manipulate, and those that are manipulated. For those objects
that are being manipulated there's the Stampable module and for the manipulators there's the
Stamper module. There's also the actual Userstamp module for your controllers that assists in
setting up your environment on a per request basis.

=== Example
Assume a weblog application has User and Post objects.
# 1: Create the migrations for these objects

  class CreateUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      create_table :users, :force => true do |t|
        ...
        t.userstamps # use t.userstamps(true) if you also want 'deleter_id'
      end
    end

    def self.down
      drop_table :users
    end
  end

  class CreatePosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      create_table :posts, :force => true do |t|
        ...
        t.userstamps # use t.userstamps(true) if you also want 'deleter_id'
      end
    end

    def self.down
      drop_table :posts
    end
  end

# 2: Users are going to manipulate Post's, use the <tt>model_stamper</tt>:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    model_stamper
  end

# 3: Set the current user in the ApplicationController:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    include Userstamp
  end

If all you are interested in is making sure all tables that have the proper columns are stamped
by the currently logged in user you can stop right here. More than likely you want all your
associations setup on your stamped objects, and that's where the <tt>stampable</tt> class method
comes in. So in our example we'll want to use this method in both our User and Post classes:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    model_stamper
    stampable
  end
  
  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    stampable
  end

Okay, so what all have we done? The <tt>model_stamper</tt> class method injects two methods into the
User class. They are #stamper= and #stamper and look like this:

  def stamper=(object)
    object_stamper = if object.is_a?(ActiveRecord::Base)
      object.send("#{object.class.primary_key}".to_sym)
    else
      object
    end
    
    Thread.current["#{self.to_s.downcase}_#{self.object_id}_stamper"] = object_stamper
  end

  def stamper
    Thread.current["#{self.to_s.downcase}_#{self.object_id}_stamper"]
  end

The <tt>stampable</tt> method allows you to customize what columns will get stamped, and also
creates the +creator+, +updater+, and +deleter+ associations.

The Userstamp module that we included into our ApplicationController uses the setter method to
set which user is currently making the request. By default the 'set_stampers' method works perfectly
with the RestfulAuthentication[http://svn.techno-weenie.net/projects/plugins/restful_authentication] plug-in:

  def set_stampers
    User.stamper = self.current_user
  end

If you aren't using ActsAsAuthenticated, then you need to create your own version of the
<tt>set_stampers</tt> method in the controller where you've included the Userstamp module.

Now, let's get back to the Stampable module (since it really is the interesting one). The Stampable
module sets up before_* filters that are responsible for setting those attributes at the appropriate
times. It also creates the belongs_to relationships for you.

If you need to customize the columns that are stamped, the <tt>stampable</tt> method can be
completely customized. Here's an quick example:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    stampable :stamper_class_name => :person,
              :creator_attribute  => :create_user,
              :updater_attribute  => :update_user,
              :deleter_attribute  => :delete_user,
			  :deleter => true
  end

== Upgrade from 1.x
 # config/environment.rb
 Ddb::Userstamp.compatibility_mode = true
  
{Example userstamp application}[http://github.com/delynn/userstamp_sample]

== Running Unit Tests

 All: rake
 One: ruby test/compatibility_stamping_test.rb

== Author
{DeLynn Berry}[http://delynnberry.com/]

The original idea for this plugin came from the Rails Wiki article entitled
{Extending ActiveRecord}[http://wiki.rubyonrails.com/rails/pages/ExtendingActiveRecordExample].

== Contributors / maintenance / enhancement
- {Michael Grosser}[http://pragmatig.com]
- {John Dell}[http://blog.spovich.com/]
- Chris Hilton